"By date Narasthana they originated a natural, basic luminosity, the clarity status, as they
practiced during their lifetime and that moment they merged, they are abiding over with that
natural status, status and they said, four, five, seven, even twenty-one days, many times we heard
those great practitioners stated twenty-one days, twenty days.
Well, whatever the numbers they stated, three days, whatever, but they are resting in this reality,
the true, basic, natural status.
And of course that, this is, that is one of the Pardo practices. Pardo teaching is the one of the
big teachings of this fisparathic deity or the Chatur teachings.
I think maybe many of you already know these Pardo practices.
But Pardo has every kind of divided Pardo. Pardo has six categories, all four categories.
The four category is the principal categories. So every term now, for example, Pardo of the death.
What we call Pardo? Pardo is translated as the intermediate status.
So in a way, Pardo is what? As we always say, it's a dream status, dream status.
There is four dream status. Pardo of the death, Pardo of the, what we most talk about, Pardo of the
death and Pardo of the birth and Pardo of the living.
Those are the four Pardos, principal or those are the Pardos.
But the Pardo is no other than the dream stage. They are dream.
So the Pardo, as we can translate it in another way, translate it, Pardo dream of the death, Pardo
dream of the upper death and Pardo dream of the becoming
of the birth and Pardo dream of the living.
This all just dream. Everything is like dream. Pardo is no other than dream. Dreamer and dream, all
is dream.
It's not that we are the looker, watcher of the dream and we are not dream. We are dream.
Ourself, each and individually, we are the dream beings. That's why I think it's also here.
They use the terminology, we are the dream teams. Dream teams.
That they just say, whether they are completely on my team or they agree or not, I agree that too
with dream teams.
And they are happy, very happy with dream teams. Truly, we are all dream teams.
Dream team, there's four different stage of the dream teams that we go through.
This, the death is one of the dreams.
And the upper death is one of the dreams that we go through.
And then birth is one of the dreams. And the living is one of the dreams.
So these four different dreams we go through. But this, the certainness of samadhi, true nature of
samadhi.
Poor and quiet, habitative pattern of the death.
That also means, when we have this realization quite good, we are not really scared with the death.
When you have habitative pattern, it's not something package, it's your release, and still the
death is just that.
Death is just another dream, dream.
So when you have the realization of this certainness truth, or certainness samadhi, or the true
nature of this samadhi,
then death is, I think, peace of case.
And that's why the witness by all those great masters, such as Luma Kipa, and all those great
masters,
practitioner, really is not just making kind of like Prince's statement, or something like that.
Black, black. But truly, they ever deaths, they are witnessed.
Death is nothing but another dream stage.
We have so many different dream stages, even in our life, one life, it's just certain.
So when you purify it, death, habitative pattern, we are not scared, we are not afraid, we are not
hesitated.
Death is another, just transition, energy.
And again, in the teachings said, when you practice of this certainness samadhi, or this certain
ness samadhi,
whatever it does, it will purify the habitative patterns of palmless realms.
Among the three realms, palm brain, I think whenever you know, palm brain,
palmless, palmless realm, and palm brain, and the desire realms.
There is three realms, all the samsara, but again, the way that they share the dreams, in one way,
they share the dream, the slightly different dream is experienced by these three different major
groups of this.
So this suchness samadhi, the true nature samadhi, will purify the habitative patterns.
Of the palmless realms.
And when will that all happen, what will it bring?
It will connect, as we say, the ordinary nature of the clear luminous status,
and that means, it will connect into among the three enlightened status, dharmakaya buddha.
It's connecting to the dharmakaya status.
So when we are meditating, when we are in this true nature samadhi,
what is the satin samadhi?
We are experiencing and we are one building dharmakaya, dharmakaya buddhas.
That is the weapon.
So it will invoke, call it, call it, present of the dharmakaya, that moment.
So that is what all about is the satin samadhi.
And satin samadhi is the foundation of this visualization.
From that we begin.
Because we like to have this visualization, not too much grasping, too much clinging,
and not going to build another idea of the clinging and grasping and regiment conceptions.
Those all are unreal.
Those are obstacles.
Therefore, buddha, even though visualization is constructed,
even though visualization is kind of like imagination or focus sometimes,
but this imagination leads, as I said, or you know,
to the beyond imagination, beyond grasping and clinging.
Therefore, this satin samadhi is the very foundation of the samadhi
and foundation of this visualization.
From that we begin.
Because every time, for example, when we meditate every time or practice,
we should stay pre-second or pre-moment or even pre-minutes in that status.
Just relax mind in that natural status.
Just without following all thoughts, just sit and abiding.
Experience the inner vast space and states.
Enjoy the vastness spirit of inner calm, peace, soothing.
Just relax.
That is the most resting place that we can rest.
Without disturb by all the turbulence of these things.
Just rest for few seconds, pre-moment and free.
And this is kind of very soothing and calming and rejuvenated status.
And sit there.
If you have time, for example.
Then, from that satin as great status, then second samadhi is developed.
Second samadhi is, then, as I said, or in Tibet,
is called kundun namat thing, you see, I think.
I mean, not I think, that's what the teachers say.
That's kundun namat thing.
And which means I translate it as all arising, all appearance.